DTS: Extend binding validation to support phandles (#111740)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/build/dts/bindings-syntax.rst

compatible strings. The build system emits an error if a referenced node does
not have at least one of the listed strings in its ``compatible`` property.

For example, a binding whose ``peer`` property must point to a companion node
can be written as follows:

.. code-block:: YAML

   compatible: "vendor,controller"

   properties:
     peer:
       type: phandle
       target-compatibles:
         - "vendor,companion-a"
         - "vendor,companion-b"
       description: |
         Phandle linking the controller node to its companion node.

.. code-block:: DTS

   &controller {
           peer = <&companion>;
   };

   companion: companion {
           compatible = "vendor,companion-b";
           /* ... */
   };

Pointing ``peer`` at a node with an unrelated compatible triggers a build error.

.. _dt-bindings-target-on-bus:

target-on-bus
=============

The ``target-on-bus`` setting is used with ``phandle`` and ``phandles`` properties
to require that the referenced node appears on a specific :ref:`bus <dt-bindings-bus>`.
It takes a single bus name, matching the values used with :ref:`on-bus <dt-bindings-on-bus>`.

> For example:

Reviewer: Please add another example with target-compatibles

.. code-block:: YAML

   compatible: "vendor,controller"

   properties:
     sensor:
       type: phandle
       target-on-bus: i2c
       description: |

>          Phandle to a vendor,sensor node that must be attached to an I2C bus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         Phandle to a node that must be a child of an I2C controller.
```
